Title: Improving neural networks by preventing co-adaptation of feature detectors
ArXiv: 1207.0580v1
Version: v1
Authors: Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto,, 6 King’s College Rd, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3G4, Canada
Sections: 21
Estimated tokens: 7.4k

## Contents
- References and Notes
- Appendix A Experiments on MNIST
  - A.1 Details for dropout training
  - A.2 Details for dropout finetuning
  - A.3 Effect on features
- Appendix B Experiments on TIMIT
  - B.1 Pretraining
  - B.2 Dropout Finetuning
- Appendix C Experiments on Reuters
- Appendix D Tiny Images and CIFAR-10
- Appendix E ImageNet
- Appendix F Convolutional Neural Networks
  - F.1 Pooling
  - F.2 Local response normalization
  - F.3 Neuron nonlinearities
  - F.4 Objective function
  - F.5 Weight initialization
  - F.6 Training
  - F.7 Learning rates
- Appendix G Models for CIFAR-10
- Appendix H Models for ImageNet

## References and Notes

- 1.
D. E. Rumelhart, G. E. Hinton, R. J. Williams, Nature 323, 533
(1986).
- 2.
G. E. Hinton, Neural Computation 14, 1771 (2002).
- 3.
L. M. G. D. C. Ciresan, U. Meier, J. Schmidhuber, Neural Computation
22, 3207 (2010).
- 4.
Y. B. Y. Lecun, L. Bottou, P. Haffner, Proceedings of the IEEE 86, 2278 (1998).
- 5.
G. E. Hinton, R. Salakhutdinov, Science 313, 504 (2006).
- 6.
A. Mohamed, G. Dahl, G. Hinton, IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and
Language Processing, 20, 14 (2012).
- 7.
G. Dahl, D. Yu, L. Deng, A. Acero, IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and
Language Processing, 20, 30 (2012).
- 8.
N. Jaitly, P. Nguyen, A. Senior, V. Vanhoucke, An Application OF Pretrained
Deep Neural Networks To Large Vocabulary Conversational Speech Recognition,
Tech. Rep. 001, Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto
(2012).
- 9.
A. Krizhevsky, Learning multiple layers of features from tiny images, Tech. Rep. 001, Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto
(2009).
- 10.
A. Coates, A. Y. Ng, ICML (2011), pp. 921–928.
- 11.
J. Deng, et al., CVPR09 (2009).
- 12.
J. Sanchez, F. Perronnin, CVPR11 (2011).
- 13.
S. J. N. R. A. Jacobs, M. I. Jordan, G. E. Hinton, Neural Computation
3, 79 (1991).
- 14.
R. M. Neal, Bayesian Learning for Neural Networks, Lecture Notes in
Statistics No. 118 (Springer-Verlag, New York, 1996).
- 15.
L. Breiman, Machine Learning 24, 123 (1996).
- 16.
L. Breiman, Machine Learning 45, 5 (2001).
- 17.
J. D. A. Livnat, C. Papadimitriou, M. W. Feldman, PNAS 105,
19803– (2008).
- 18.
R. R. Salakhutdinov, G. E. Hinton, Artificial Intelligence and
Statistics (2009).
- 19.
D. D. Lewis, T. G. R. Y. Yang, Journal of Machine Learning 5, 361
(2004).

## Appendix A Experiments on MNIST

### A.1 Details for dropout training

The MNIST dataset consists of 28 $\times$ 28 digit images - 60,000 for training and 10,000 for testing.
The objective is to classify the digit images into their correct digit class.
We experimented with neural nets of different architectures (different number of hidden units and
layers) to evaluate the sensitivity of the dropout method to these choices. We show
results for 4 nets (784-800-800-10, 784-1200-1200-10, 784-2000-2000-10,
784-1200-1200-1200-10). For each of these architectures we use the same dropout
rates - 50% dropout for all hidden units and 20% dropout for visible units.
We use stochastic gradient descent with 100-sized minibatches and a cross-entropy objective function.
An exponentially decaying learning rate is used
that starts at the value of 10.0 (applied to the average gradient in each
minibatch). The learning rate is multiplied by 0.998 after each epoch of
training. The incoming weight vector corresponding to each hidden unit is constrained to have a
maximum squared length of $l$. If, as a result of an update, the squared length
exceeds $l$, the vector is scaled down so as to make it have a squared length of
$l$. Using cross validation we found that $l=15$ gave best results.
Weights are initialzed to small random values drawn from a zero-mean normal distribution with
standard deviation 0.01. Momentum is used to speed up learning. The momentum
starts off at a value of 0.5 and is increased linearly to 0.99 over the first
500 epochs, after which it stays at 0.99. Also, the learning rate is multiplied
by a factor of (1-momentum). No weight decay is used.
Weights were updated at the end of each minibatch.
Training was done for 3000 epochs.
The weight update takes the following form:

$$ $\displaystyle\Delta w^{t}$ $\displaystyle=$ $\displaystyle p^{t}\Delta w^{t-1}-(1-p^{t})\epsilon^{t}\langle\nabla_{w}L\rangle$ $\displaystyle w^{t}$ $\displaystyle=$ $\displaystyle w^{t-1}+\Delta w^{t},$ $$

where,

$$ $\displaystyle\epsilon^{t}$ $\displaystyle=$ $\displaystyle\epsilon_{0}f^{t}$ $\displaystyle p^{t}$ $\displaystyle=$ $\displaystyle\begin{cases}\frac{t}{T}p_{i}+(1-\frac{t}{T})p_{f}&t<T\\ p_{f}&t\geq T\end{cases}$ $$

with $\epsilon_{0}=10.0$, $f=0.998$, $p_{i}=0.5$, $p_{f}=0.99$, $T=500$.
While using a constant learning rate also gives improvements over standard
backpropagation, starting with a high learning rate and decaying it provided a
significant boost in performance. Constraining input vectors to have a fixed
length prevents weights from increasing arbitrarily in magnitude
irrespective of the learning rate. This gives the network a lot of opportunity
to search for a good configuration in the weight space. As the learning rate
decays, the algorithm is able to take smaller steps and finds the right step size
at which it can make learning progress. Using a high final momentum distributes
gradient information over a large number of updates making learning
stable in this scenario where each gradient computation is for a different
stochastic network.

### A.2 Details for dropout finetuning

Apart from training a neural network starting from random weights, dropout can
also be used to finetune pretrained models. We found that finetuning a
model using dropout with a small learning rate can give much better performace
than standard backpropagation finetuning.

*Deep Belief Nets* - We took a neural network pretrained using a Deep Belief Network  (?).
It had a 784-500-500-2000 architecture and was trained using greedy layer-wise
Contrastive Divergence learning
(^1^11For code see [http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~hinton/MatlabForSciencePaper.html](http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~hinton/MatlabForSciencePaper.html)). Instead of fine-tuning it
with the usual backpropagation algorithm, we used the dropout version of it.
Dropout rate was same as before : 50% for hidden units and 20% for
visible units. A constant small learning rate of 1.0 was used. No constraint was imposed on
the length of incoming weight vectors. No weight decay was used. All other
hyper-parameters were set to be the same as before. The model was trained for 1000 epochs
with stochstic gradient descent using minibatches of size 100. While standard
back propagation gave about 118 errors, dropout decreased the errors to about 92.

*Deep Boltzmann Machines* - We also took a pretrained Deep Boltzmann
Machine  (?) (^2^22 For code see [http://www.utstat.toronto.edu/~rsalakhu/DBM.html](http://www.utstat.toronto.edu/~rsalakhu/DBM.html))
(784-500-1000-10) and finetuned it using dropout-backpropagation. The
model uses a 1784 - 500 - 1000 - 10 architecture (The extra 1000 input
units come from the mean-field activations of the second layer of hidden units
in the DBM, See  (?) for details).
All finetuning hyper-parameters were set to be the same as the ones used for a Deep Belief Network.
We were able to get a mean of about 79 errors with dropout whereas usual finetuning gives about 94 errors.

Figure: (a)
Refer to caption: /html/1207.0580/assets/mnist_features_backprop.png

### A.3 Effect on features

One reason why dropout gives major improvements over backpropagation is that it encourages each individual
hidden unit to learn a useful feature without relying on specific other hidden units to
correct its mistakes. In order to verify this and better understand the effect
of dropout on feature learning, we look at the first level of features learned by a 784-500-500
neural network without any generative pre-training. The features are shown in Figure [5](#A1.F5). Each panel shows 100 random
features learned by each network. The features that dropout
learns are simpler and look like strokes, whereas the ones learned by
standard backpropagation are difficult to interpret. This
confirms that dropout indeed forces the discriminative model to learn
good features which are less co-adapted and leads to better generalization.

## Appendix B Experiments on TIMIT

The TIMIT Acoustic-Phonetic Continuous Speech Corpus is a standard dataset used
for evaluation of automatic speech recognition systems. It consists of
recordings of 630 speakers of 8 dialects of American English each
reading 10 phonetically-rich sentences. It also comes with the word and
phone-level transcriptions of the speech. The objective is to convert a given
speech signal into a transcription sequence of phones.
This data needs to be pre-processed to extract input features and output targets.
We used Kaldi, an open source code library for speech
(^3^33[http://kaldi.sourceforge.net](http://kaldi.sourceforge.net)), to
pre-process the dataset so that our results can be reproduced exactly.
The inputs to our networks are log filter bank responses. They are extracted
for 25 ms speech windows with strides of 10 ms.

Each dimension of the input representation was normalized to have mean 0 and variance 1.
Minibatches of size 100 were used for both pretraining and dropout finetuning. We
tried several network architectures by varying the number of input frames (15 and 31), number of
layers in the neural network (3, 4 and 5) and the number of hidden units in each
layer (2000 and 4000).
Figure [6](#A2.F6) shows the validation
error curves for a number of these combinations. Using dropout
consistently leads to lower error rates.

Figure: (a)
Refer to caption: /html/1207.0580/assets/timit_train.png

### B.1 Pretraining

For all our experiments on TIMIT, we pretrain the neural network with a
Deep Belief Network  (?).
Since the inputs are real-valued, the first layer was pre-trained as a Gaussian RBM. Visible biases were initialized
to zero and weights to random numbers sampled from a zero-mean normal distribution with
standard deviation 0.01. The variance of each visible unit was set to 1.0 and
not learned. Learning was done by minimizing Contrastive Divergence. Momentum
was used to speed up learning. Momentum started at 0.5 and was increased
linearly to 0.9 over 20 epochs. A learning rate of 0.001 on the average gradient
was used (which was then multiplied by 1-momentum). An L2 weight decay of 0.001 was used. The model was
trained for 100 epochs.

All subsequent layers were trained as binary RBMs. A learning rate of 0.01 was
used. The visible bias of each unit was initialized to $\log(p/(1-p))$ where $p$
was the mean activation of that unit in the dataset. All other hyper-parameters
were set to be the same as those we used for the Gaussian RBM. Each layer was trained for 50 epochs.

### B.2 Dropout Finetuning

The pretrained RBMs were used to initialize the weights in a neural network. The
network was then finetuned with dropout-backpropagation.
Momentum was increased from 0.5 to 0.9 linearly over 10 epochs. A small constant learning
rate of 1.0 was used (applied to the average gradient on a minibatch). All other hyperparameters
are the same as for MNIST dropout finetuning. The model needs to be run for
about 200 epochs to converge. The same network was also finetuned with standard
backpropagation using a smaller learning rate of 0.1, keeping all other
hyperparameters

Figure [6](#A2.F6) shows the frame classification error and cross-entropy
objective value on the training and validation sets. We compare the performance
of dropout and standard backpropagation on several network architectures and
input representations. Dropout consistently achieves lower error and
cross-entropy. It significantly controls overfitting, making the method robust
to choices of network architecture. It allows much larger nets to be trained and removes
the need for early stopping. We also observed that the final error obtained by
the model is not very sensitive to the choice of learning rate and momentum.

## Appendix C Experiments on Reuters

Reuters Corpus Volume I (RCV1-v2)  (?) is an archive of
804,414 newswire stories that have been manually categorized into 103 topics(^4^44The corpus is available at http://www.ai.mit.edu/projects/jmlr/papers/volume5/lewis04a/lyrl2004_rcv1v2_README.htm).
The corpus
covers four major groups: corporate/industrial, economics, government/social, and markets.
Sample topics include Energy Markets, Accounts/Earnings, Government Borrowings, Disasters and
Accidents, Interbank Markets, Legal/Judicial, Production/Services, etc. The topic classes form
a tree which is typically of depth three.

We took the dataset and split it into 63 classes based on the
the 63 categories at the second-level of the category tree.
We removed 11 categories that did not have any data and one category that
had only 4 training examples. We also removed one category that covered a huge
chunk (25%) of the examples. This left us with 50 classes and 402,738 documents.
We divided the documents into equal-sized training and test sets randomly. Each
document was represented using the 2000 most frequent non-stopwords in the dataset.

Figure: (a)
Refer to caption: /html/1207.0580/assets/reuters_train.png

We trained a neural network using dropout-backpropagation and compared it with
standard backpropagation. We used a 2000-2000-1000-50 architecture. The training
hyperparameters are same as that in MNIST dropout training (Appendix [A.1](#A1.SS1)). Training was done
for 500 epochs.

Figure [7](#A3.F7) shows the training and test set errors as learning
progresses. We show two nets - one with a 2000-2000-1000-50 and
another with a 2000-1000-1000-50 architecture trained with and without dropout.
As in all previous datasets discussed so far, we obtain significant improvements
here too. The learning not only results in better generalization, but also
proceeds smoothly, without the need for early stopping.

## Appendix D Tiny Images and CIFAR-10

The Tiny Images dataset contains 80 million $32\times 32$ color images
collected from the web. The images were found by searching various
image search engines for English nouns, so each image comes with a
very unreliable label, which is the noun that was used to find it.
The CIFAR-10 dataset is a subset of the Tiny Images dataset which
contains 60000 images divided among ten classes(^5^55The CIFAR dataset is available at http://www.cs.toronto.edu/$\sim$kriz/cifar.html.). Each class contains
5000 training images and 1000 testing images. The classes are *airplane*,
*automobile*, *bird*, *cat*, *deer*, *dog*,
*frog*, *horse*, *ship*, and *truck*. The CIFAR-10
dataset was obtained by filtering the Tiny Images dataset to remove
images with incorrect labels. The CIFAR-10 images are highly varied,
and there is no canonical viewpoint or scale at which the objects
appear. The only criteria for including an image were that the image
contain one dominant instance of a CIFAR-10 class, and that the object
in the image be easily identifiable as belonging to the class indicated
by the image label.

## Appendix E ImageNet

ImageNet is a dataset of millions of labeled images in thousands of
categories. The images were collected from the web and labelled by
human labellers using Amazon’s Mechanical Turk crowd-sourcing tool.
In 2010, a subset of roughly 1000 images in each of 1000 classes was
the basis of an object recognition competition, a part of the Pascal
Visual Object Challenge. This is the version of ImageNet on which
we performed our experiments. In all, there are roughly 1.3 million
training images, 50000 validation images, and 150000 testing images.
This dataset is similar in spirit to the CIFAR-10, but on a much bigger
scale. The images are full-resolution, and there are 1000 categories
instead of ten. Another difference is that the ImageNet images often
contain multiple instances of ImageNet objects, simply due to the
sheer number of object classes. For this reason, even a human would
have difficulty approaching perfect accuracy on this dataset. For
our experiments we resized all images to $256\times 256$ pixels.

## Appendix F Convolutional Neural Networks

Our models for CIFAR-10 and ImageNet are deep, feed-forward convolutional
neural networks (CNNs). Feed-forward neural networks are models which
consist of several layers of “neurons”, where each neuron in
a given layer applies a linear filter to the outputs of the neurons
in the previous layer. Typically, a scalar bias is added to the filter
output and a nonlinear activation function is applied to the result
before the neuron’s output is passed to the next layer. The linear
filters and biases are referred to as *weights*, and these are
the parameters of the network that are learned from the training data.

CNNs differ from ordinary neural networks in several ways. First,
neurons in a CNN are organized topographically into a bank that reflects
the organization of dimensions in the input data. So for images, the
neurons are laid out on a 2D grid. Second, neurons in a CNN apply
filters which are local in extent and which are centered at the neuron’s
location in the topographic organization. This is reasonable for datasets
where we expect the dependence of input dimensions to be a decreasing
function of distance, which is the case for pixels in natural images.
In particular, we expect that useful clues to the identity of the
object in an input image can be found by examining small local neighborhoods
of the image. Third, all neurons in a bank apply the same filter,
but as just mentioned, they apply it at different locations in the
input image. This is reasonable for datasets with roughly stationary
statistics, such as natural images. We expect that the same kinds
of structures can appear at all positions in an input image, so it
is reasonable to treat all positions equally by filtering them in
the same way. In this way, a bank of neurons in a CNN applies a convolution
operation to its input. A single layer in a CNN typically has multiple
banks of neurons, each performing a convolution with a different filter.
These banks of neurons become distinct input channels into the next
layer. The distance, in pixels, between the boundaries of the receptive
fields of neighboring neurons in a convolutional bank determines the
*stride* with which the convolution operation is applied. Larger
strides imply fewer neurons per bank. Our models use a stride of one
pixel unless otherwise noted.

One important consequence of this convolutional shared-filter architecture
is a drastic reduction in the number of parameters relative to a neural
net in which all neurons apply different filters. This reduces the
net’s representational capacity, but it also reduces its capacity
to overfit, so dropout is far less advantageous in convolutional layers.

### F.1 Pooling

CNNs typically also feature “pooling” layers which summarize
the activities of local patches of neurons in convolutional layers.
Essentially, a pooling layer takes as input the output of a convolutional
layer and subsamples it. A pooling layer consists of pooling units
which are laid out topographically and connected to a local neighborhood
of convolutional unit outputs from the same bank. Each pooling unit
then computes some function of the bank’s output in that neighborhood.
Typical functions are maximum and average. Pooling layers with such
units are called max-pooling and average-pooling layers, respectively.
The pooling units are usually spaced at least several pixels apart,
so that there are fewer total pooling units than there are convolutional
unit outputs in the previous layer. Making this spacing smaller than
the size of the neighborhood that the pooling units summarize produces
*overlapping pooling.* This variant makes the pooling
layer produce a coarse coding of the convolutional unit outputs, which
we have found to aid generalization in our experiments. We refer to
this spacing as the *stride* between pooling units, analogously
to the stride between convolutional units. Pooling layers introduce
a level of local translation invariance to the network, which improves
generalization. They are the analogues of *complex cells* in
the mammalian visual cortex, which pool activities of multiple simple
cells. These cells are known to exhibit similar phase-invariance properties.

### F.2 Local response normalization

Our networks also include response normalization layers. This type
of layer encourages competition for large activations among neurons
belonging to different banks. In particular, the activity $a_{x,y}^{i}$
of a neuron in bank $i$ at position $(x,y)$ in the topographic organization
is divided by

$$ $\left(1+\alpha\sum_{j=i-N/2}^{i+N/2}(a_{x,y}^{j})^{2}\right)^{\beta}$ $$

where the sum runs over $N$ “adjacent” banks of neurons at
*the same position in the topographic organization*. The
ordering of the banks is of course arbitrary and determined before
training begins. Response normalization layers implement a form of
lateral inhibition found in real neurons. The constants $N,\alpha$,
and $\beta$ are hyper-parameters whose values are determined using
a validation set.

### F.3 Neuron nonlinearities

All of the neurons in our networks utilize the max-with-zero nonlinearity.
That is, their output is computed as $a_{x,y}^{i}=\max(0,z_{x,y}^{i})$
where $z_{x,y}^{i}$ is the total input to the neuron (equivalently,
the output of the neuron’s linear filter added to the bias). This nonlinearity has several
advantages over traditional saturating neuron models, including a
significant reduction in the training time required to reach a given
error rate. This nonlinearity also reduces the need for contrast-normalization
and similar data pre-processing schemes, because neurons with this
nonlinearity do not saturate – their activities simply scale up when
presented with unusually large input values. Consequently, the only
data pre-processing step which we take is to subtract the mean activity
from each pixel, so that the data is centered. So we train our networks
on the (centered) raw RGB values of the pixels.

### F.4 Objective function

Our networks maximize the multinomial logistic regression objective,
which is equivalent to minimizing the average across training cases
of the cross-entropy between the true label distribution and the model’s
predicted label distribution.

### F.5 Weight initialization

We initialize the weights in our model from a zero-mean normal distribution
with a variance set high enough to produce positive inputs into the
neurons in each layer. This is a slightly tricky point when using
the max-with-zero nonlinearity. If the input to a neuron is always
negative, no learning will take place because its output will be uniformly
zero, as will the derivative of its output with respect to its input.
Therefore it’s important to initialize the weights from a distribution
with a sufficiently large variance such that all neurons are likely
to get positive inputs at least occasionally. In practice, we simply
try different variances until we find an initialization that works.
It usually only takes a few attempts. We also find that initializing
the biases of the neurons in the hidden layers with some positive
constant (1 in our case) helps get learning off the ground, for the
same reason.

### F.6 Training

We train our models using stochastic gradient descent with a batch
size of 128 examples and momentum of 0.9. Therefore the update rule
for weight $w$ is

$$ $\displaystyle v_{i+1}$ $\displaystyle=$ $\displaystyle 0.9v_{i}+\epsilon<\frac{\partial E}{\partial w_{i}}>_{i}$ $\displaystyle w_{i+1}$ $\displaystyle=$ $\displaystyle w_{i}+v_{i+1}$ $$

where $i$ is the iteration index, $v$ is a momentum variable, $\epsilon$
is the learning rate, and $<\frac{\partial E}{\partial w_{i}}>_{i}$
is the average over the $i^{th}$ batch of the derivative of the objective
with respect to $w_{i}$. We use the publicly available cuda-convnet
package to train all of our models on a single NVIDIA GTX 580 GPU.
Training on CIFAR-10 takes roughly 90 minutes. Training on ImageNet
takes roughly four days with dropout and two days without.

### F.7 Learning rates

We use an equal learning rate for each layer, whose value we determine
heuristically as the largest power of ten that produces reductions
in the objective function. In practice it is typically of the order
$10^{-2}$ or $10^{-3}$. We reduce the learning rate twice by a
factor of ten shortly before terminating training.

## Appendix G Models for CIFAR-10

Our model for CIFAR-10 without dropout is a CNN with three convolutional
layers. Pooling layers follow all three. All of the pooling layers
summarize a $3\times 3$ neighborhood and use a stride of 2. The pooling
layer which follows the first convolutional layer performs max-pooling,
while the remaining pooling layers perform average-pooling. Response
normalization layers follow the first two pooling layers, with $N=9$,
$\alpha=0.001$, and $\beta=0.75$. The upper-most pooling layer is
connected to a ten-unit softmax layer which outputs a probability
distribution over class labels. All convolutional layers have 64 filter banks
and use a filter size of $5\times 5$ (times the number of channels
in the preceding layer).

Our model for CIFAR-10 with dropout is similar, but because dropout
imposes a strong regularization on the network, we are able to use
more parameters. Therefore we add a fourth weight layer, which takes
its input from the third pooling layer. This weight layer is *locally-connected
but not convolutional.* It is like a convolutional layer in which
filters in the same bank do not share weights. This layer contains
16 banks of filters of size $3\times 3$. This is the layer in which
we use 50% dropout. The softmax layer takes its input from this fourth
weight layer.

## Appendix H Models for ImageNet

Our model for ImageNet with dropout is a CNN which is trained on $224\times 224$
patches randomly extracted from the $256\times 256$ images, as well
as their horizontal reflections. This is a form of data augmentation
that reduces the network’s capacity to overfit the training data and
helps generalization. The network contains seven weight layers. The
first five are convolutional, while the last two are globally-connected.
Max-pooling layers follow the first, second, and fifth convolutional
layers. All of the pooling layers summarize a $3\times 3$ neighborhood
and use a stride of 2. Response-normalization layers follow the first
and second pooling layers. The first convolutional layer has 64 filter
banks with $11\times 11$ filters which it applies with a stride of
4 pixels (this is the distance between neighboring neurons in a bank).
The second convolutional layer has 256 filter banks with $5\times 5$
filters. This layer takes two inputs. The first input to this layer
is the (pooled and response-normalized) output of the first convolutional
layer. The 256 banks in this layer are divided arbitrarily into groups
of 64, and each group connects to a unique random 16 channels from
the first convolutional layer. The second input to this layer is a
subsampled version of the original image ($56\times 56$), which is
filtered by this layer with a stride of 2 pixels. The two maps resulting
from filtering the two inputs are summed element-wise (they have exactly
the same dimensions) and a max-with-zero nonlinearity is applied to
the sum in the usual way. The third, fourth, and fifth convolutional
layers are connected to one another without any intervening pooling
or normalization layers, but the max-with-zero nonlinearity is applied
at each layer after linear filtering. The third convolutional layer
has 512 filter banks divided into groups of 32, each group connecting
to a unique random subset of 16 channels produced by the (pooled, normalized)
outputs of the second convolutional layer. The fourth and fifth convolutional
layers similarly have 512 filter banks divided into groups of 32,
each group connecting to a unique random subset of 32 channels produced
by the layer below. The next two weight layers are globally-connected,
with 4096 neurons each. In these last two layers we use 50% dropout.
Finally, the output of the last globally-connected layer is fed to
a 1000-way softmax which produces a distribution over the 1000 class
labels. We test our model by averaging the prediction of the net on
ten $224\times 224$ patches of the $256\times 256$ input image: the
center patch, the four corner patches, and their horizontal reflections.
Even though we make ten passes of each image at test time, we are
able to run our system in real-time.

Our model for ImageNet without dropout is similar, but without the
two globally-connected layers which create serious overfitting when
used without dropout.

In order to achieve state-of-the-art performance on the validation
set, we found it necessary to use the very complicated network
architecture described above. Fortunately, the complexity of this
architecture is not the main point of our paper. What we wanted to
demonstrate is that dropout is a significant help even for the very complex
neural nets that have been developed by the joint efforts of many
groups over many years to be really good at object recognition. This
is clearly demonstrated by the fact that using non-convolutional
higher layers with a lot of parameters leads to a big improvement with
dropout but makes things worse without dropout.